README.md, before:

[![author](https://img.shields.io/badge/Author-Francisco&nbsp;Bustamante-red.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/flsbustamante/) 
[![GPLv3 license](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](LICENSE) 
[![contributions welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributions-Welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/chicolucio/portfolio-data-science/issues)

<p align="center">
<img src="https://github.com/chicolucio/portfolio-data-science/blob/master/banner.png?raw=true" alt="banner">
</p>

# Data Science projects

As an experienced Data Scientist, I've been fortunate enough to tackle
exciting projects. I combine analytical skills, ability to work in team environments, and
attention to details.

I have delivered relevant projects to companies in diverse markets. Most of them are
confidential, but I've replicated some solutions, using public data to develop different
projects for this portfolio. I'm currently updating these projects so that even my
earliest works can reflect my current abilities.

These are *some* tools/skills/technologies used on the projects listed below:

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3670A0?style=plastic&logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54)
![Pandas](https://img.shields.io/badge/Pandas-%23150458.svg?style=plastic&logo=pandas&logoColor=white)
![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-4479A1.svg?style=plastic&logo=MySQL&logoColor=white)
![Scikit-Learn](https://img.shields.io/badge/Scikit_Learn-F7931E.svg?style=plastic&logo=scikit-learn&logoColor=white)
![Matplotlib](https://img.shields.io/badge/Matplotlib-3670A0.svg?style=plastic&logo=&logoColor=white)
![Plotly](https://img.shields.io/badge/Plotly-%233F4F75.svg?style=plastic&logo=plotly&logoColor=white)
![Streamlit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Streamlit-FF4B4B.svg?style=plastic&logo=streamlit&logoColor=white)
![AWS](https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-232F3E.svg?style=plastic&logo=amazonaws&logoColor=white)

A complete list can be seen in each project link.

All in all, I believe my greatest asset is the combination of technical skills and 
communication. My projects are detailed and well documented, which helps translate
technical work into real-life results.

Links:

- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/flsbustamante/)
- [Full portfolio](https://franciscobustamante.com.br/portfolio)
- [Curriculum Vitae](https://franciscobustamante.com.br/about/)

## Projects

- Customer churn prediction - [code repo](https://github.com/chicolucio/customer-churn-prediction) | [article](https://franciscobustamante.com.br/portfolio/2022-06-project_churn_prediction/)

  > *Abstract*: Churn is a measure of how many customers stop using a service or product,
  often evaluated for a specific period of time. In this study, a churn level prediction
  process is carried out using machine learning. A dataset with over 7000 customers of a
  telecom company is used. An action plan for the company is designed based on the
  results.

- Credit card fraud detection - [code repo](https://github.com/chicolucio/credit-card-fraud-detection) | [article](https://franciscobustamante.com.br/portfolio/2022-01-projeto_fraude_cartao_credito/)

  > *Abstract*: In this work, we will use a credit card transactions database to study
  different algorithms, which can be used to classify a given transaction as fraudulent
  or not. We will see how to deal with unbalanced databases in Scikit Learn.

- Global overview of COVID-19 - [code repo](https://github.com/chicolucio/panorama-covid-mundo) | [article](https://franciscobustamante.com.br/portfolio/2022-04-project_covid/)

  > *Abstract*: It has been 2 years since the emergence of the COVID-19 virus. The
  pandemic control measures adopted by governments around the world have significantly
  affected everyone’s routine. Now, most governments are relaxing COVID restrictions
  despite high omicron variant spread. What can we learn from COVID data?

- Statistical analysis of student grades - [code repo](https://github.com/chicolucio/estatisticas-oiq-2019)

  > *Abstract*: Use of Python and Pandas package to evaluate the students’ performance in
  a Chemistry Olympiad at an educational institution.

- Science communication through data science - [site](https://cienciaprogramada.com.br/category/data-science/)

  > *Abstract*: I have a personal project of a scientific communication platform, focused
  on usage and development of technological tools. I show how we can use Python and
  software for a better understanding of scientific concepts and daily situations. I also
  cover Data Science topics and coding best practices.

Commit message:

Add marketing project and the fix credit card fraud links

README.md, after:

[![author](https://img.shields.io/badge/Author-Francisco&nbsp;Bustamante-red.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/flsbustamante/) 
[![GPLv3 license](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](LICENSE) 
[![contributions welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributions-Welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/chicolucio/portfolio-data-science/issues)

<p align="center">
<img src="https://github.com/chicolucio/portfolio-data-science/blob/master/banner.png?raw=true" alt="banner">
</p>

# Data Science projects

As an experienced Data Scientist, I've been fortunate enough to tackle
exciting projects. I combine analytical skills, ability to work in team environments, and
attention to details.

I have delivered relevant projects to companies in diverse markets. Most of them are
confidential, but I've replicated some solutions, using public data to develop different
projects for this portfolio. I'm currently updating these projects so that even my
earliest works can reflect my current abilities.

These are *some* tools/skills/technologies used on the projects listed below:

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3670A0?style=plastic&logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54)
![Pandas](https://img.shields.io/badge/Pandas-%23150458.svg?style=plastic&logo=pandas&logoColor=white)
![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-4479A1.svg?style=plastic&logo=MySQL&logoColor=white)
![Scikit-Learn](https://img.shields.io/badge/Scikit_Learn-F7931E.svg?style=plastic&logo=scikit-learn&logoColor=white)
![Matplotlib](https://img.shields.io/badge/Matplotlib-3670A0.svg?style=plastic&logo=&logoColor=white)
![Plotly](https://img.shields.io/badge/Plotly-%233F4F75.svg?style=plastic&logo=plotly&logoColor=white)
![Streamlit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Streamlit-FF4B4B.svg?style=plastic&logo=streamlit&logoColor=white)
![AWS](https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-232F3E.svg?style=plastic&logo=amazonaws&logoColor=white)

A complete list can be seen in each project link.

All in all, I believe my greatest asset is the combination of technical skills and 
communication. My projects are detailed and well documented, which helps translate
technical work into real-life results.

Links:

- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/flsbustamante/)
- [Full portfolio](https://franciscobustamante.com.br/portfolio)
- [Curriculum Vitae](https://franciscobustamante.com.br/about/)

## Projects

- Marketing campaign optimization - [code repo](https://github.com/chicolucio/marketing-campaign-optimization) | [article](https://franciscobustamante.com.br/portfolio/2025-marketing-case/)

  > *Abstract*: This project analyzes a retail food company’s direct marketing campaign,
  which suffered a low response rate (15%) and financial loss. Using data-driven
  strategies, we optimized future campaigns through customer segmentation, predictive
  modeling, and profit analysis.

- Customer churn prediction - [code repo](https://github.com/chicolucio/customer-churn-prediction) | [article](https://franciscobustamante.com.br/portfolio/2022-06-project_churn_prediction/)

  > *Abstract*: Churn is a measure of how many customers stop using a service or product,
  often evaluated for a specific period of time. In this study, a churn level prediction
  process is carried out using machine learning. A dataset with over 7000 customers of a
  telecom company is used. An action plan for the company is designed based on the
  results.

- Credit card fraud detection - [code repo](https://github.com/chicolucio/credit-card-fraud) | [article](https://franciscobustamante.com.br/portfolio/2022-01-project_credit_card_fraud/)

  > *Abstract*: In this work, we will use a credit card transactions database to study
  different algorithms, which can be used to classify a given transaction as fraudulent
  or not. We will see how to deal with unbalanced databases in Machine Learning.

- Global overview of COVID-19 - [code repo](https://github.com/chicolucio/panorama-covid-mundo) | [article](https://franciscobustamante.com.br/portfolio/2022-04-project_covid/)

  > *Abstract*: It has been 2 years since the emergence of the COVID-19 virus. The
  pandemic control measures adopted by governments around the world have significantly
  affected everyone’s routine. Now, most governments are relaxing COVID restrictions
  despite high omicron variant spread. What can we learn from COVID data?

- Statistical analysis of student grades - [code repo](https://github.com/chicolucio/estatisticas-oiq-2019)

  > *Abstract*: Use of Python and Pandas package to evaluate the students’ performance in
  a Chemistry Olympiad at an educational institution.

- Science communication through data science - [site](https://cienciaprogramada.com.br/category/data-science/)

  > *Abstract*: I have a personal project of a scientific communication platform, focused
  on usage and development of technological tools. I show how we can use Python and
  software for a better understanding of scientific concepts and daily situations. I also
  cover Data Science topics and coding best practices.
